# Neighborhood Watch

The hope for this project is to provide a repository of crime information  that users can leverage to not only better understand the crime levels within the U district but also to provide a platform in which users can organize and promote best security practices within their community. The target audience for this platform are the citizens of the University District. There needs to be a digital town square to organize and fight back against the rampant wave of crime ailing our corner of Seattle. This project hopes to provide just that to the people that need it most, a feeling of control, an ability to take a stand against the crime afflicting their community. From college students who do not feel safe walking on the Ave at night to young families buying  here for a cheaper entry point into Seattle’s vibrant culture but feeling threatened by the constant presence of homelessness and regular break ins, this platform aims to provide a solution. 

In particular university students, who make up the majority of the U district population, are the majority stakeholder within our application. This audience may feel safe on campus but as they progress through their education life becomes less centered around the college campus. Housing moves north or west of UW, nightlife, grocery shopping, leisure, all centers around University Ave, or University Village. Understanding when, where, and how crime occurs within these off campus locales allows the user to be safer, and for the community to better combat crime. Within the student population there is a strong voice for change and that change must come from within the student body. Through organization and cooperation, within our digital town hall, the University district can take a step towards safety and peace of mind. 
As developers we hope to provide the forum for this discussion to take place. There are crime monitoring applications available but none with the customization and knowledge of the University of Washington’s inner workings. As college students ourselves we have a unique perspective into the framework that structures the University District. Throughout our education here at UW we have seen the impact of the area’s increased crime rate and understand the tax it weighs upon every member of the community. The inspiration for this project was a wave of automobile break-ins but we hope the end result is a coordination of the University community in its efforts to combat crime. 

The digital town hall will be broken into several portions and a range of functionalities, all tailored to the needs of the University populace. The first portion of this project will consist of an interactive map with crime statistics in the area and will afford the user the ability to report crime that they have experienced or witnessed. On top of user reports we will be leveraging a live crime database to supplement the user reported crimes. This will allow us a more comprehensive view of the crime occurring within the University District. The other portion of the platform will consist of a user centric site allowing the coordination and successful launch of a neighborhood watch program. 

The site will allow for user sign-ups and will provide a calendar of time’s and responsibilities for the watch such that users know when and where they will be needed within the watch program. Users will be able to take on various roles such as watch organizer, concerned citizen, watch participant and several others. The hope is to have live notifications so user’s will have real time data on where and when crimes occur. On top of the organizational functionality the site will provide resources and support for the groups, allowing users to reach out and request support from the organizers of the watch program.  

